We're done with the soft SEO stuff,
the strategy,
we're about to dive into some coding.
And I've got one more slide and
then we're gonna do an exercise and
the exercise is all about this one slide.
So these are the absolute
basic lowest level
pieces of metadata you
can add to your app.
In terms of SEO, a title,
a description, and
keywords, keywords don't matter anymore.
We're going to pretend they do for
this exercise.
Your title should be relatively short.
Just because beyond this length
search engines will truncate it right
you only get one line and just typical
browser would tell us that going
beyond 65 characters,
you'll start to chop things off.
A description is often
heavily weighted towards,
like, what search engines will
interpret your site being all about.
So this is where you want to put
important metadata technical terms.
Things that stand out that
aren't just normal words, but
it should be absolutely human readable.
Some search engines will
use this as the description
under the title of your search result.
And keywords are by and large ignored,
but we'll all use them for this.
So what we're gonna do is take
our starting point app, and
I'm gonna show you how
to use it in a moment.
We're gonna add metadata
like this to the app and
it is currently absent or
incorrect in some form.
And then we're gonna end up
deploying this app to Heroku.
So, the way we're going to start is
this project that you've downloaded.
First, I want you to make sure that
you do a git pull origin master,
like make sure that you pull down the most
recent copy of this SEO workshop project.
I was polishing it last night and
I want to make sure everyone
has the most recent exercises.
And I'm gonna fire it up and
I'm going to do a little mini deploy for
you all, just so
we can all understand how this works.
So what I have here If you're in the SASS
workshop, this will look very familiar.
This is a similar.
Thank you.
This is a very similar setup here,
where we have a folder called exercises.
This is where you're going to live.
Most of some of the exercises like
build on the same sub folder.
You know, in multiple iterations, but
these all represent like many
apps that we'll be working on.
And if we look at this deploy app, we'll
see that we've got a couple files in here.
We've got a folder called public.
This is what the browser reads.
This is what the browser
ends up reading right?
So we've got a CSS file that
is generated from this sass.
So if you've used sass before, you could
use sass in here if you choose to.
We're not gonna be doing
much with style today.
But using CSS in this file is also fine.
And then we've got this folder called
views, and it has an extension called HBS.
HBS is handlebars.
It's a superset of HTML.
So all valid HTML works in this file.
But if you get down here,
you may notice that it looks like
I don't have any handlebars here.
Let's see that so
this is just literal HTML.
You might in the future see
stuff that looks like this,
like capitalize something like that.
So we can use little non HTML
expressions to put like dynamic
pieces of data in our HTML, I'll show
you a more meaningful example just so
we understand what this is all about.
So here we're going to
use data that has been
retrieved from a real API for
a list of courses.
And here you can see we've got
a an unordered list and then we loop over
a list of courses and for each course,
we put a list item in place.
So this is as complex as
it's gonna get and each and
you really won't need to touch
the handlebars portion of this, but
I do want you to know what
you're looking at here.
And I want you to know that
it works just like HTML.
Any HTML we work with today,
you can put in place.
This just lets me make some data with the
HTML before I place it back on the screen.
So, we'll be working in
this deploy folder first.
And what you have here is something
called instructions for deployment.
So if we start this app up,
which is gonna be run, dash e for
exercise, and then the name of
the exercises subfolder, which is deploy.
Let me you know what I can do,
click here and go up here.
Run dash e deploy.
And if we look back at the slides
here at the bottom of each slide,
I have a command to run at the bottom.
So you'll know exactly
which of these to startup.
So if we hit enter, oops,
sorry, it's dot slash run.
You'll see a little banner saying
we've started the exercise and
then you can go to localhost 3000.
You should see something
that looks like this.
So if you can't get to this step.
Let me know or say something in the chat
if you're watching this online so
we can straighten you out.
But judging by having used this before,
it should work for most everyone.
So then what we're gonna do, this app
here it actually is the instructions for
the exercise step by step.
That'll help you get
this app on to Heroku.
So if you've installed the Heroku command
line tool, and logged in with it,
using Heroku login,
you're going to create a new app.
And then you're going to configure
that app with just two variables.
One of these variables kind of
tells Heroku which of the exercise
subfolders to render.
So you'll be able to switch
from the deploy folder to
the AMP folder just by setting this
environment variable and Heroku will like
restart the app in two seconds and
now you'll see something new on the site.
And then finally, you just push to the Git
remote that Heroku sets up for you, right?
So they you push to it, just like you
would push to GitHub using Heroku master.
And then once it goes through its thing
once this command completes, you could run
Heroku open to just open your web
browser with the appropriate URL and
you should see it.
So I've already deployed.
Actually, I can deploy it for
you right now.
GIT push Heroku master and
I have to do double dash force.
Because I've deployed
a later version of this.
Oop, to the Heroku remote,
some kind of going
backwards in history which
is why I have to force.
And you'll see it'll go through
installing a bunch of stuff and
at the very end we should see,
let me shrink it down so
that we can see the bottom of this.
So that's about how long it should take.
And you see it says like,
some URL has been deployed to Heroku.
So this is an automatically
generated app name.
You could either visit this in a browser
or you could just do Heroku open.
And it should open a browser for
you with that URL.
In this case, let's see.
Let's try that one more time.
There we go.
So here I'm viewing a later exercise.
I can switch that.
Like that.
And there are our deploy
instructions soon as it responds.
There we go.
Instructions for deployment.
A little clipped off for you.
But people watching online should see,
is that clear to everyone.
So you're just going to add some metadata
and deploy this and we're going to build
on an example like this over the rest of
the day, where we'll gradually we'll add,
some Facebook metadata, some Twitter
metadata some schema.org Open Graph stuff.
And use some of the best
testing tools available,
to see how our app looks to these
other sites that are important for us.